AMAZON 1 TESTING Report: Apple's Sunnyvale neighbors call spaceship campus a 'constant hell'
By Dianne de Guzman, SF Gate, August 21 2017
Despite its sleek look, amenities and futuristic building shape, Apple's new "spaceship" headquarters is not only disliked among some employees — it's also hated by some neighbors in the surrounding area.
According to the San Jose Mercury News, residents of the Birdland neighborhood in Sunnyvale say that despite the increase in their property values, living next to the $5 billion construction project for the past four years has been a "constant hell" — not to mention a (now permanent) eyesore.
Residents bordering the campus have taken to calling a yellow brick wall the "prison wall," according to the Mercury News, as part of Apple's wellness center is now blocking off their view of the Santa Cruz Mountains.
"My life has been a constant hell since October 2013," IrisAnn Nelson said to the Mercury News. "We get treated like we don't matter."
Beyond having to deal with the ugliness of a wall towering over the neighborhood, residents said they've been dealing with drivers using their streets to divert around construction traffic, dirt pollution and "an incessant mechanical hum" from the construction site after midnight.
There has also been criticism of the design, with Wired Magazine deep-diving into the circumstances of the rise of Apple's new campus, yet in another breath calling it a "literally inward-looking building with contempt for the city where it lives and cities in general." The article mentioned Cupertino's giving in to "certain needs" of Apple, including security, leading to the closing of a major road and no access to the public.
The building has had other effects on the neighboring areas. In July, the New York Times reported that as many as 95 development projects were in their planning stages in Sunnyvale. The building is also attracting camera-wielding tourists, with everything from camera phones to drones monitoring the progress of the construction.
Apple, for its part, has apparently been trying to help alleviate some of the issues. Among its initiatives, the tech giant is spending $500,000 to Sunnyvale to look at parking and local "cut-through traffic." A representative also stated the company provided vouchers for car washes (due to the construction dust) and extra street sweeping, and banned company trucks and buses from driving through Birdland.