The city Amazon picks for its second headquarters will change forever
by Kaya Yurieff and Julia Horowitz, CNN, Oct. 27, 2017
Cities across North America want the 50,000 jobs that come with Amazon's HQ2. But will it really make life for residents better?
Amazon sent cities into a frenzy when it announced plans to build a second headquarters, expected to cost $5 billion to construct. Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) said it received 238 proposals from across the continent.
Submissions came from major urban centers like New York City and Los Angeles, Canadian metro areas including Toronto, and smaller U.S. cities like Worcester, Massachusetts and Stonecrest, Georgia.
"Bringing in up to 50,000 jobs into a city is pretty much an event you can't duplicate any other way. ... It's akin to winning the lottery," said Steve Glickman, cofounder and executive director of the Economic Innovation Group.
But hosting Amazon's new facility will also have its disadvantages. A lot depends on which city the company ultimately picks.
While the project will bring high-paying jobs, it won't hit all places with equal force. In smaller cities where housing is more limited, home prices could rise. Meanwhile, big cities like New York that already employ a lot of white collar workers aren't likely to see a major economic transformation -- they'll just get richer.
A 50,000-job stimulus.
The expected 50,000 jobs the new headquarters will bring is impressive in and of itself. The fact that they will pay well makes the opportunity even more attractive.
"People often just count the number of jobs, but not the quality. ... These are high-quality, high-paying jobs. That is a huge benefit," said Nathan Jensen, a professor at the University of Texas at Austin.
As a result, the new facility would bring more highly-skilled workers to town. Some Amazon employees could eventually leave the company and start their own businesses in the city, according to Ravi Madhavan, a professor of business administration at the University of Pittsburgh.
"It just takes a few people to launch a business and for one of them to become really successful," Madhavan said.
Amazon could also act as an "anchor" company, and attract its suppliers or other big tech companies to the winning city.
But the effect of 50,000 jobs will depend on the size of the winner's local job market.
