As cities ready HQ2 bids, Amazon should plan civic investments too, community groups say
by Matt Day, Seattle Times, October 17 2017
The monthlong public courtship to become Amazon’s second headquarters has focused on what cities are prepared to offer the retail giant.
A coalition of community groups is trying to reverse that dynamic, publishing an open letter on Tuesday that asks Amazon Chief Executive Jeff Bezos to forgo tax breaks and invest in the civic health of whichever city the company chooses for HQ2.
“We’re expecting Amazon to pay your fair share if you end up being our neighbor,” says the letter, signed by representatives of dozens of labor groups, community organizing committees and policy researchers who advocate for equitable urban development.
The letter outlines a list of requests of Amazon, including protection of workers rights, investment in education programs that get students ready for high-tech roles at HQ2, support for mass transit, and helping to keep affordable housing available as the company settles in.
“We’re trying to say that Amazon can’t just run the table in this transaction, there have to be community benefits attached,” said Greg Leroy, director of Good Jobs First, which tracks public subsidies to private companies, and a signatory of the letter. “There can’t just be this huge burden shift in which everybody else pays for the growth that gets induced” by Amazon, he said.
Amazon declined to comment on the letter.
Amazon started an economic development gold rush last month when it announced it was seeking a second headquarters site somewhere in North America. The company envisions a corporate campus of up to 50,000 people over more than a decade, and plans to invest about $5 billion building it.
In its request for proposals, Amazon said tax breaks and other incentives that offset its costs would be a significant factor in its decision. Politicians, eager to land the biggest economic development prize of the decade, rushed to line up those incentives. A high-water mark so far: New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie on Monday backed a plan to offer $7 billion in tax breaks to lure Amazon to Newark.
Not everyone has been willing to open up the public purse.
San Jose, California, Mayor Sam Liccardo said his city would offer Amazon nothing. 