Apple Face ID 'Fooled Again'--This Time By $200 Evil Twin Mask
By Thomas Fox-Brewster, Forbes, Nov. 27, 2017
The Vietnamese hackers who claimed earlier this month to have fooled Apple's Face ID with a mask costing less than $150 are back. But this time, their evidence is more compelling.
Whereas in their previous attack researchers from Vietnamese cybersecurity company Bkav didn't show the enrolment process, or how long it took from that point to opening an iPhone X with the mask, in a new proof of concept, they appear to do both. A video shows the Face ID facial recognition enrolment being reset. Then the researcher enrols his own face and seconds later unlocks it with a mask made of a 3D-printed visage constructed of stone powder, with 2D-printed eyes stuck on.
The researchers dubbed their mask the "artificial twin," as it was similar to the way an identical (or close to identical) sibling could unlock an iPhone X. Indeed, video evidence of such trickery has emerged since the launch of the iPhone X. In at least one case, a female user's 10-year-old son was able get into the device by just looking at it. Apple, during the iPhone X launch, admitted that in some cases where family members looked similar enough, there was a chance Face ID would allow them access. But it claimed to have worked with Hollywood studios to test out various mask-based hacks.
Bkav hasn't been shy in criticizing Apple's facial recognition technology, though. "About two weeks ago, we recommended that only very important people such as national leaders, large corporation leaders, billionaires, etc., should be cautious when using Face ID," said Ngo Tuan Anh, Bkav's vice president of cybersecurity. "However, with this research result, we have to raise the severity level to every casual users: Face ID is not secure enough to be used in business transactions."
Apple hadn't responded to a request for comment at the time of publication. Users who are concerned about using facial recognition on their iPhone X can just fall back to using a passcode.
A spokesperson for Bkav said it had decided not to tell Apple about about its newest techniques as the iPhone maker had chosen not to respond to media reports when its last hack was released.
