APPLE 2 = NEEDS TO BE UPDATED. How a Wireless Sensor System in the Busiest City Intersections Can Save Lives – Verizon has devised a system of cameras, sensors, and algorithms that can track the number of times cars fail to yield to bicyclists and pedestrians at a particular intersection.
by Elizabeth Woyke, MIT Technology Review, June 2, 2017
Every city has at least one dangerous intersection where cars, trucks, and buses jostle for space with pedestrians and bicyclists, often resulting in injury, and sometimes death. Could a network of wirelessly connected cameras and sensors, combined with sophisticated algorithms that analyze how people are behaving on the road, make these junctions less hazardous?
Verizon is using Boston as a test bed to find out. In March, the tech giant began collecting car, bike, and pedestrian traffic data at one of the city’s most hectic intersections. Boston will use the information to redesign its streets, says Vineet Gupta, director of policy and planning for the Boston Transportation Department. The data can measure if interventions such as changing traffic signal timings or installing a bike lane have been effective, he adds.
Boston’s ultimate aim is to eliminate traffic fatalities citywide by 2030. If the project is successful, other cities could adopt similar “smart streets” technologies.
The data is being collected at the junction of Massachusetts Avenue, a four-lane road, and Beacon Street, a three-lane, one-way street. The intersection is located near a major bridge that links Boston to Cambridge. Sixteen pedestrians and bicyclists were seriously injured at this crossroads during 2015 and 2016, and one bicyclist was killed after colliding with a flatbed truck.
Like other cities, Boston typically collects traffic data manually and bases its traffic-management designs on industry standards rather than local information. To obtain more-accurate data, Verizon outfitted the intersection with 50 cameras and sensors, including “quad cameras”—each containing four smaller cameras that can pan, tilt, and zoom in different directions—and infrared cameras that can do thermal imaging, which is useful for discerning traffic activity in snow and rain. Below ground, Verizon installed dozens of magnetometer sensors that detect the velocity, number, and size of passing cars, trucks, and buses by registering a change in frequency when large metal objects move over them. Since most bikes don’t have enough conductive material to trigger the magnetometers, the site also has radars for sensing bicyclists.
Verizon correlates this sensor data with two other types of information: bus-location data provided by the city and software that can tell whether a traffic light is red, yellow, or green at a given time. 