Teachers in U.S. paid far less than similarly educated professionals, report finds
By Valerie Strauss, Washington Post, September 14 2017
How does the United States value its teachers? It pays them, on average, less than 60 percent of the salaries of similarly educated professionals, according to a newly released 456-page annual report on education around the world.
The 2017 Education at a Glance report, issued by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, looks at education data in its 35 member countries — including the United States, Canada, Chile, Australia and many of the Western European countries — as well as in some partner countries, such as the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Argentina, Brazil, China, India and Indonesia.
The good news: The report finds that since 2000, the overall workforce in these countries has become better educated. At the turn of the millennium, the majority of young adults had reached high school as their highest education level, but today the largest share of those ages 25 to 34 have a college degree. In the United States, it said, 46 percent of people in that same age group are college-educated. That’s the largest percentage in the OECD, although the gap has been shrinking; in 2000, the gap was 12 percentage points but it shrunk to 4 percent in 2016 as other countries began to catch up.
The study notes that “teachers are the backbone of the education system,” but that their salaries have decreased on average in OECD countries, making the profession “increasingly unattractive to young students.” The economic crisis of 2007-08 affected teacher pay, the report said; between 2005 and 2015, salaries of teachers decreased in real terms in one-third of the countries with available data.
In the United States, the report said, starting teachers earn more than in the other included countries — about $42,500 in elementary school compared with the OECD average of $31,000. But American teachers earn on average only up to nearly 60 percent than other professionals with similar education levels, “the lowest relative earnings across all OECD countries with data,”  it said.
"Teachers’ actual salaries (including bonuses and allowances) remain below the average salaries of similarly educated full-time, full-year workers."