Uber Strikes Deal With Volvo to Bring Self-Driving Cars to Its Network
By Mike Isaacnov, The New York Times, Nov. 20, 2017
No one knows what the future of self-driving cars will look like, or how long it will take to get there. But every major player in the field is striking partnerships to be ready for the day when autonomous vehicles finally become mainstream.
That includes Uber, which on Monday announced a new deal with Volvo. Under the agreement, Uber plans to purchase as many as 24,000 self-driving Volvos once the technology is production-ready, putting the vehicles into its extensive ride-hailing network.
“Everything we’re doing right now is about building autonomous vehicles at scale,” Jeff Miller, Uber’s head of automotive alliances, said in an interview. “We don’t know exactly how an autonomous world will look. But we know that we want to be the platform that’s at the center of it, from a ride-sharing standpoint.”
The deal is an extension of an agreement Uber made with Volvo nearly two years ago, when the ride-hailing company started its research and development efforts in autonomous vehicles in earnest. Uber has worked with third-party component manufacturers to build software and hardware for driverless cars, then worked closely with Volvo to outfit the automaker’s XC90 vehicles with the technology.
But the new deal vastly increases the number of Volvo driverless cars that Uber can work with, showing the scope of its ambitions.
Uber Chooses Expedia’s Chief as C.E.O., Ending Contentious Search AUG. 27, 2017
Volvo, which is based in Sweden and owned by Geely Automobile Holdings of China, said in a statement that Volvo and Uber were contributing $300 million to the project.
From automakers like Ford, Tesla and General Motors to technology companies like Google, Uber and Lyft, titans of the transportation industry are racing to gain an edge in a future of autonomous vehicles. Each of the players has approached the issue differently. Automakers like G.M. and Ford have spent billions buying software-based start-ups to work on integrating driverless technology into their vehicles.
